---
layout: post
title: "About Me"
description: "Fabrizio Duroni"
date: 2017-05-10
image: /assets/images/posts/game-boy.jpg
tags: [stuff]
comments: false
math: false
seo:
 - name: "Fabrizio Duroni"
 - type: "BlogPosting"
authors: [fabrizio_duroni]
---

*It's me, Fabrizio Duroni. A software developer with a true passion for his work. A computer graphics lover.
But wait, another blog yet? Yes, you're right, it could be boring. I hope this will not be
my case.*

---

Hello! I'm Fabrizio Duroni. I live in Como, Italy with my family, my girlfriend Chiara and a lot of computers.
I started to love technology since I was 7 years old, when I received my first [Game Boy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Game_Boy "Game Boy") for Christmas. I still remember the first day I played  to [Super Mario Land 2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Super_Mario_Land_2:_6_Golden_Coins "Super Mario Land 2"). It was really amazing.  

{% include blog-lazy-image.html description="The game boy and the cover of my first video game: Super Mario Land 2" width="700" height="298" src="/assets/images/posts/game-boy.jpg" %}

I continued my journey with another console, the [Nintendo NES](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nintendo_Entertainment_System "Nintendo NES").
Just to be clear (if you didn't get it yet), video games are one of main hobbies. After the first two Nintendo console,
I became a Playstation Fan and I bought every console Sony has been release since the first one in 1995.  
I bought my first pc when I was 10 years old. It was equipped with an AMD K5 (NO INTEL PENTIUM?!!! :open_mouth:) processor and 64 MB of RAM.
I remember the first experiments with it and how fun it was to discover new things about computer science every day.  
I started to study programming since I was 14. I started with Pascal during High School and then I continued with **C, Java, PHP** during my bachelor's degree. In 2009 I fell in love with Apple :iphone: (what??!!!! :laughing:), and I started to develop iOS application in 2010. As a result you can understand why I'm in love with **Swift** and **Objective-C**. This was also the time when started my *internal struggle* about which one is the best between Apple and Microsoft, without forgetting, of course, of Linux (and I don't think this internal fight will never end :sweat_smile:).  

{% include blog-lazy-image.html description="The never ending struggle: Apple vs Microsoft vs Linux" width="1286" height="400" src="/assets/images/posts/apple-microsoft-linux.jpg" %}
  
In 2013 I started my master degree, where I studied in **computer graphics**, the computer science field I love the most.
This is why I also fell in love with **C++**. I also know **Javascript** and **TypeScript**.  
If you want to read other details about my computer science journey, see my [homepage](/ "homepage").  
I consider myself an experienced developer. I enjoy so much my work. I consider it as a way to challenge myself every day and it also gives me the possibility to get in touch with a lot of very smart people.

### **By the way, what does it mean Chicio?**

Chicio is my nickname as long as I could remember. Everyone is used to call me in this way. Sometimes I think this is my 
real name. Its origin will remain unknown (to you... :stuck_out_tongue_winking_eye:), but I really like it.
  
### **Why do you want to start a blog?**

Just for selfish reasons. Mainly because I want to keep track of my progress in programming, computer graphics and generally 
speaking in everything related to computer science. That's it.  

### **What is the logo image near the blog name?**

It's an image of the [Sombrero Galaxy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sombrero_Galaxy "Sombrero galaxy"). You can find an image of this galaxy also on the cover of [Clean Code: A Handbook of Agile Software Craftsmanship](https://cleancoders.com "Clean Code: A Handbook of Agile Software Craftsmanship") by Robert C. Martin "Uncle Bob". I'm getting deep into the clean code world while I'm starting this blog and I think I will talk a lot also about this topic.

{% include blog-lazy-image.html description=" Clean Code: A Handbook of Agile Software Craftsmanship by Robert C. Martin" width="800" height="467" src="/assets/images/posts/clean-code-uncle-bob.jpg" %}

### **Is there something after Computer Science?**

Obviously Chiara, the most important person in my life :cupid:.  
There was a time when I was a huge metal :metal: and rock music fan. I tried to play bass guitar for some years, but I failed miserably (really, it's not my job :grin:). In fact, I have on my skin "the signatures" (tattoos!!) from that period. Now I enjoy a more "open relation" with music without too much stress (but I eventually hope in the near future to start again to make some signatures on my skin :relieved:).
I also really like to go with my bicycle. I could say I'm some sort of sportsman.
  
The presentation is over, and I hope you're not already bored.  
Enjoy the read.
